I have sketched and designed a version of the list view yesterday (see
images "sketches" and "listview-v1"). However, I have presented that
version to a number of people and most of the people did not like the half
and half split.
Therefore today I have redesigned the layout and created the version2
list-view (see image "listview-v2").

ideas:

listview-v2:
A list-view concept will display a list of available houses that are
showing on the current map location. The alphabets on the list-view will
match the ones on the map. If the mouse is hovering above a listing, the
box will turn darker and the marker on the map will turn slightly bigger
and will be in a different color.

If the target users are for college students, I find that the distance
between the houses and campus (or a certain location) is a considering
factors for most students since they will have to commute to campus (other
location) everyday. So the assignment of alphabets are based on the
distance to campus (or a location that they may have entered).

listview-vdetails:
In addition, a more compressed detailed list is for the ones who are
experts for house hunting and they just need the basic information, and
this detailed list will make comparing houses easier and faster.

Colors/styles:
The colors and styles are based on the current website of OnMyBlock.

Interaction:
the list will be under the map and as you click on the open button, the
map will slide open and show the list, or users can just click on the
viewing option buttons on the upper right hand corner (map|list|detail) to
open the list. The list can be scrolled with the flat designed scroll-bar.
(Also applicable on tablet or mobile).

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

I just wanted to make sure I didn't miss any of your feedbacks on the list
view concept.
-flatten list and map so they are on the same layer
-take out assigned alphabets from both list and map
-take out enter arrow from the listing
-show interaction on the favorite button
-show and redesign the sort function entirely"

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Focus:
map and list: same layer.
Favorite button: gray (default), pink opacity=0.5 (hover), pink (active).
Favorite listing marker will also be pink;
(I know the comments and restaurants markers are in pink, but i think the
favorites should have an obvious contrast color between the normal ones
and the favorite ones. Perhaps a change in the color of the other markers
can be made? just a suggestion)

Sort Function:
-tags with labels. Sorting will be based on priority of the tags: if the
street tag comes before the rent tag, for example, it will sort all of the
listing by street names first, then sort the rent prices within those with
the same street name. Tags can also be drag around to change their
priority.
-hover over tags: an "x" will appear and the tag can be remove if click on x.
-tag button: the tag will act as a button as well. when clicking on the
tag itself (beside the x), it will change the direction of the arrow
(ascending or descending order sorting).
-sort menu: down arrow on the right side to open sort menu. active tags
are in a different color. simply clicking on the button to select/deselect
tags. x button or up arrow to close menu.